Document OCI volume sources / KEP-4639 (#46946)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/storage/volumes.md

Reviewer: Ideally, document whether an `image` volume is writeable.

Author: We do: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/46946/files#diff-70b35b750a602b2e989d50acffc27244d0938f07178937655307f45acb74dbf4R579-R580

  creation will fail If the pull fails.
- `Never`: the kubelet never pulls the reference and only uses a local image or
  artifact. Container creation will fail if the reference isn't present.
- `IfNotPresent`: the kubelet pulls if the reference isn't already present on
  disk. Container creation will fail if the reference isn't present and the pull
  fails.

The volume gets re-resolved if the pod gets deleted and recreated, which means
that new remote content will become available on pod recreation. A failure to
resolve or pull the image during pod startup will block containers from starting
and may add significant latency. Failures will be retried using normal volume
backoff and will be reported on the pod reason and message. The types of objects
that may be mounted by this volume are defined by the container runtime
implementation on a host machine and at minimum must include all valid types
supported by the container image field. The OCI object gets mounted in a single
directory (`spec.containers[*].volumeMounts.mountPath`) by merging the manifest
layers in the same way as for container images. The volume will be mounted

> read-only (`ro`) and non-executable files (`noexec`). Sub path mounts for

Reviewer 2: We have updated the list of mount options, I wonder if it makes sense to update these here too?

Author: Hm, no that's not a hard requirement.

Reviewer 2: What I mean... the implementation is different from what is says here. If that's not a problem, then no worries. Just caught my eye while reading things.

Author: Yes, CRI-O uses slightly higher security standards here, but that's not a requirement from the KEP.

Reviewer 2: OK. I see it. CRI is free to implement more atop the minimum requirement. No worries. Nothing to see here then.

containers are not supported (`spec.containers[*].volumeMounts.subpath`). The
field `spec.securityContext.fsGroupChangePolicy` has no effect on this volume
type. The [`AlwaysPullImages` Admision Controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#alwayspullimages)

> does also work for this volume source like for container images.

Reviewer 2: A lot of content here, would a newline between some of the sentences to split things up help with readability?

Author: Yep, done :+1:

The following fields are available for the `image` type:

- `reference`: Image or artifact reference to be used.
    Behaves in the same way as `pod.spec.containers[*].image`.
    Pull secrets will be assembled in the same way as for the container image by

>     looking up node credentials, SA image pull secrets, and pod spec image pull

Reviewer 2: What is "SA" here? Would it make sense to make a glossary pop up for this?

Reviewer 2: (it's a _Service Account_, of course; no need to answer :smile: )

Author: I'll write it out, thanks!

      type: FileOrCreate
```

### image

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="ImageVolume" >}}

An `image` volume source represents an OCI object (a container image or

> artifact) pulled and mounted on the kubelet's host machine.

Reviewer: BTW, we don't know how the container runtime achieves this. Not all runtimes will need to do the mount on the host.

Author: I changed the phrasing to relax the mount restriction.

One example to use the `image` volume source is:

{{% code_sample file="pods/image-volumes.yaml" %}}

The volume is resolved at pod startup depending on which `pullPolicy` value is
provided:

> - `Always`: the kubelet always attempts to pull the reference. Container
>   creation will fail if the pull fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Always`: the kubelet always attempts to pull the reference. If the pull fails,
  the kubelet sets the Pod to `Failed`.
```

Author: Fixed as suggested.

- `Never`: the kubelet never pulls the reference and only uses a local image or

>   artifact. Container creation will fail if the reference isn't present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  artifact. The Pod becomes `Failed` if any layers of the image aren't already present
  locally, or if the manifest for that image isn't already cached.
```

Author: Fixed as suggested.

- `IfNotPresent`: the kubelet pulls if the reference isn't already present on

>   disk. Container creation will fail if the reference isn't present and the pull

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  disk. The Pod becomes `Failed` if the reference isn't present and the pull
```

Author: Fixed as suggested.

>   fails.

Reviewer: nit: I'd use a description list here.

Author: Do we have a special shortcode for that?

      type: FileOrCreate
```

### image

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="ImageVolume" >}}

An `image` volume source represents an OCI object (a container image or
artifact) which is available on the kubelet's host machine.

One example to use the `image` volume source is:

{{% code_sample file="pods/image-volumes.yaml" %}}

The volume is resolved at pod startup depending on which `pullPolicy` value is
provided:

> - `Always`: the kubelet always attempts to pull the reference. If the pull fails,
>   the kubelet sets the Pod to `Failed`.
> - `Never`: the kubelet never pulls the reference and only uses a local image or
>   artifact. The Pod becomes `Failed` if any layers of the image aren't already present
>   locally, or if the manifest for that image isn't already cached.
> - `IfNotPresent`: the kubelet pulls if the reference isn't already present on
>   disk. The Pod becomes `Failed` if the reference isn't present and the pull
>   fails.

Reviewer: Try this (no shortcode needed), which should render as a description list. I didn't test the suggestion.

```suggestion
`Always`
: the kubelet always attempts to pull the reference. If the pull fails, the kubelet sets the Pod to `Failed`.

`Never`
: the kubelet never pulls the reference and only uses a local image or artifact. The Pod becomes `Failed` if any layers of the image aren't already present locally, or if the manifest for that image isn't already cached.

`IfNotPresent`
: the kubelet pulls if the reference isn't already present on disk. The Pod becomes `Failed` if the reference isn't present and the pull fails.
```

The volume gets re-resolved if the pod gets deleted and recreated, which means
that new remote content will become available on pod recreation. A failure to
resolve or pull the image during pod startup will block containers from starting
and may add significant latency. Failures will be retried using normal volume
backoff and will be reported on the pod reason and message.

The types of objects that may be mounted by this volume are defined by the
container runtime implementation on a host machine and at minimum must include
all valid types supported by the container image field. The OCI object gets
mounted in a single directory (`spec.containers[*].volumeMounts.mountPath`) by

> merging the manifest layers in the same way as for container images. The volume
> will be mounted read-only (`ro`) and non-executable files (`noexec`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be mounted read-only. On Linux, the container runtime typically also mounts the 
volume with file execution blocked (`noexec`).
```
?

How about that? If the noexec is guaranteed by CRI, we can remove the “typically“.

Beside that:
- Sub path mounts for containers are not supported
  (`spec.containers[*].volumeMounts.subpath`).
- The field `spec.securityContext.fsGroupChangePolicy` has no effect on this
  volume type.
- The [`AlwaysPullImages` Admission Controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#alwayspullimages)
  does also work for this volume source like for container images.

The following fields are available for the `image` type:

> - `reference`: Image or artifact reference to be used.

Reviewer: Optionally - feedback here is mainly as FYI, no need to commit.

```suggestion
- `reference`: Artifact reference to be used. For example, you could specify
  `registry.k8s.io/conformance:v${{< skew currentPatchVersion >}}` to load the
  files from the Kubernetes conformance test image.
```

For beta, maybe we can publish an official sample artifact that contains “Hello, World“ or our OpenAPI data or something like that?

    Behaves in the same way as `pod.spec.containers[*].image`.
    Pull secrets will be assembled in the same way as for the container image by
    looking up node credentials, service account image pull secrets, and pod
    spec image pull secrets. This field is optional to allow higher level config
    management to default or override container images in workload controllers
    like Deployments and StatefulSets.

    [More info about container images](/docs/concepts/containers/images)

-  `pullPolicy`: Policy for pulling OCI objects. Possible values are: `Always`,
   `Never` or `IfNotPresent`. Defaults to `Always` if `:latest` tag is

>    specified, or `IfNotPresent` otherwise.

Reviewer: Could use a description list here.
